Add .NET C# quick start tutorial (#412)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/quick-start/dotnet.md

To complete this procedure, you need to have your database connection information available, including:
* username
* password
* host URL
* port
* database name

<highlight type="important">
Npgsql does not support the shorter URI-based form of a PostgreSQL connection string. Instead, the connection string must be in a supported key/value format as [described in their documentation](https://www.npgsql.org/doc/connection-string-parameters.html). Please see the documentation for additional parameters to enable features such as SSL.
</highlight>

### Procedure: Connecting .NET to TimescaleDB
1. Create a working directory for the tutorial application and initiate a new application project using the "console" template included with the .NET tooling:
```bash
mkdir dotnet-tutorial
cd dotnet-tutorial
dotnet new console
```

1. Add the `Npgsql` package to your project which will be used to connect to TimescaleDB:
```bash
dotnet add package Npgsql
```

3. Open the `Program.cs` file in your new project and replace the contents with the C# code below.

> ```csharp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```cs
```

In order to complete this procedure, you will need to have your database connection information available, including:
* username
* password
* host URL
* port
* database name

<highlight type="tip">
Npgsql does not support the shorter URI-based form of a PostgreSQL connection string. Instead, the connection string must be in a supported key/value format as [described in their documentation](https://www.npgsql.org/doc/connection-string-parameters.html). Please see the documentation for additional parameters to enable features such as SSL.
</highlight>

### Procedure: Connecting .NET to TimescaleDB

1. Create a working directory for the tutorial application and initiate a new application project using the "console" template included with the .NET tooling.

```bash
mkdir dotnet-tutorial
cd dotnet-tutorial
dotnet new console
```

2. Add the `Npgsql` package to your project which will be used to connect to TimescaleDB.

```bash
dotnet add package Npgsql
```

3. Open the `Program.cs` file in your new project and replace the contents with the C# code below.

> 

Reviewer: auto-numbering doesn't work when separated by code or other blocks. For now, I'll keep the specific numbers and we can discuss alternatives later. TBH, I don't like the look of the numbers in the current page formatting, so I wonder if we don't do separate "step" headings of some sort (like an H4) and say "Step 1:"??

            return Connection;
        }

        //
        // Procedure - Connecting .NET to TimescaleDB:
        // Check the connection TimescaleDB and verify that the extension
        // is installed in this database
        //
        public void CheckDatabaseConnection() {
            // get one connection for all SQL commands below
            using (var conn = getConnection()){

                var sql = "SELECT default_version, comment FROM pg_available_extensions WHERE name = 'timescaledb';";

                using(var cmd = new NpgsqlCommand(sql, conn)) {
                    using NpgsqlDataReader rdr = cmd.ExecuteReader();

                    if (!rdr.HasRows) {
                        Console.WriteLine("Missing TimescaleDB extension!");
                        conn.Close();
                        return;
                    }

                    while (rdr.Read())
                    {
                        Console.WriteLine("TimescaleDB Default Version: {0}\n{1}", rdr.GetString(0), rdr.GetString(1));
                    }
                    conn.Close();
                }
            }

        }
}
}
```

<highlight type="warning">

> The above method of composing a connection string is for test or development purposes only. For production applications be sure to make sensitive details like your password, hostname, and port number accessible in a secure way as supported by .NET.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This method of composing a connection string is for test or development purposes only. For production applications be sure to make sensitive details like your password, hostname, and port number accessible in a secure way as supported by .NET.
```

</highlight>

4. Run `Program.cs` to verify that .NET can connect to your database and that the TimescaleDB extension is installed

```bash
dotnet run Program.cs
TimescaleDB Default Version: 2.3.0
Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
```

If you don't see the extension at this point, please check our troubleshooting section.

## Create a relational table [](create-relational-table)
With the application successfully connecting to TimescaleDB, it's time to create some relational data that your time-series data can reference when creating data and executing queries later in the Quick Start. 

The new functionality to create the table and insert data will be added as a method to the `TimescaleHelper` class and called from the `Main` method of the program. 

### Procedure: Creating a relational table

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Add the following method at the bottom of the `TimescaleHelper` class, below the `CheckDatabaseConnection()` method.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add this method at the bottom of the `TimescaleHelper` class, below the `CheckDatabaseConnection()` method:
```

                var sensors = new List<KeyValuePair<string, string>>()
                {
                    new KeyValuePair<string, string>("a","floor"),
                    new KeyValuePair<string, string>("a","ceiling"),
                    new KeyValuePair<string, string>("b","floor"),
                    new KeyValuePair<string, string>("b","ceiling")
                };

                // Iterate over the list to insert it into the newly 
                // created relational table using parameter substitution
                foreach(KeyValuePair<string,string> kvp in sensors)
                {
                    using (var command = new NpgsqlCommand("INSERT INTO sensors (type, location) VALUES (@type, @location)", conn))
                    {
                        command.Parameters.AddWithValue("type", kvp.Key);
                        command.Parameters.AddWithValue("location", kvp.Value);

                        int nRows = command.ExecuteNonQuery();
                        Console.Out.WriteLine(String.Format("Number of rows inserted={0}", nRows));
                    }
                }
            }
        }
```

> 2. Call this new method from the `Main` program **after** `ts.CheckDatabaseConnection();`
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Call this new method from the `Main` program **after** `ts.CheckDatabaseConnection();`:
```

```csharp
            // Procedure - Creating a relational table
            ts.CreateRelationalData();

```

> 3. Save and run the application. You should see the following output.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Save and run the application. You should see output like this:
```

```bash
$ dotnet run

TimescaleDB Default Version: 2.3.0
Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
Finished dropping table (if existed)
Finished creating the sensors table
Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
```

## Create the hypertable [](create-hypertable)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Now that the relational table is created and populated, we can create a hypertable, the core features of TimescaleDB that most functionality relies on. A hypertable is first created as a regular PostgreSQL table with a date or timestamp column and then converted into a hypertable with the `create_hypertable()` API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the relational table is created and populated, you can create a hypertable, the core features of TimescaleDB that most functionality relies on. A hypertable is first created as a regular PostgreSQL table with a date or timestamp column, and then converted into a hypertable with the `create_hypertable()` API.
```

> A hypertable is the core architecture that many other TimescaleDB features is built upon (eg. [Compression](/how-to-guides/compression/), [Continuous Aggregates](/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/), and [Data Retention](/how-to-guides/data-retention/)). Learn more about hypertables and other key features of TimescaleDB in our [Core Concepts](/overview/core-concepts/) documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A hypertable is the core architecture that many other TimescaleDB features is built upon, such as [Compression](/how-to-guides/compression/), [Continuous Aggregates](/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/), and [Data Retention](/how-to-guides/data-retention/). Learn more about hypertables and other key features of TimescaleDB in our [Core Concepts](/overview/core-concepts/) documentation.
```

### Procedure: Creating a hypertable

> 
> 1. Add a new method to the bottom of the `TimescaleHelper` class that will create a new table and convert it to a hypertable
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add a new method to the bottom of the `TimescaleHelper` class that will create a new table and convert it to a hypertable:
```

                {
                    command.ExecuteNonQuery();
                    Console.Out.WriteLine("Dropped sensor_data table if it existed");
                }

                using (var command = new NpgsqlCommand(@"CREATE TABLE sensor_data (
                                           time TIMESTAMPTZ NOT NULL,
                                           sensor_id INTEGER,
                                           temperature DOUBLE PRECISION,
                                           cpu DOUBLE PRECISION,
                                           FOREIGN KEY (sensor_id) REFERENCES sensors (id)
                                           );", conn))
                {
                    command.ExecuteNonQuery();
                    Console.Out.WriteLine("Created sensor_data table to store time-series data");
                }

                using (var command = new NpgsqlCommand("SELECT create_hypertable('sensor_data', 'time');", conn))
                {
                    command.ExecuteNonQuery();
                    Console.Out.WriteLine("Converted the sensor_data table into a TimescaleDB hypertable!");
                }
            }
        }
```

> 2. Call this new method from the `Main` program **after** `ts.CreateRelationalData()`
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Call this new method from the `Main` program **after** `ts.CreateRelationalData()`:
```

```csharp
            // Procedure - Creating a hypertable
            // Create a new table and make it a hypertable to store
            // time-series data that we will generate
             ts.CreateHypertable();

```

> 3. Run the application again. It will drop and recreate the `sensors` table and then create a new hypertable called `sensor_data`.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the application again. It drops and recreates the `sensors` table, and then creates a new hypertable called `sensor_data`:
```

```bash
$ dotnet run

TimescaleDB Default Version: 2.3.0
Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
Finished dropping table (if existed)
Finished creating the sensors table
Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
Dropped sensor_data table if it existed
Created sensor_data table to store time-series data
Converted the sensor_data table into a TimescaleDB hypertable!
```

Your application is now ready to insert time-series data into the newly created TimescaleDB hypertable!

## Insert time-series data into TimescaleDB [](insert-data)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Your Timescale database has all of the components necessary to start creating and inserting time-series data. In this Quick Start, we will use a built-in PostgreSQL function, `generate_series()`, to create a small set of row data with generated timestamps to mimic time-series data. For more information on how `generate_series()` works and ideas for creating more complex and diverse sample datasets, watch this [YouTube playlist](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsceB9ac9MHQxwkSyi5LeqonMnMW8KiBZ) and our [corresponding Blog series](https://blog.timescale.com/blog/how-to-create-lots-of-sample-time-series-data-with-postgresql-generate_series/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your Timescale database has all of the components necessary to start creating and inserting time-series data. In this Quick Start, we use a built-in PostgreSQL function, `generate_series()`, to create a small set of row data with generated timestamps that mimics time-series data. For more information on how `generate_series()` works and ideas for creating more complex and diverse sample datasets, watch this [YouTube playlist](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsceB9ac9MHQxwkSyi5LeqonMnMW8KiBZ) and our [corresponding Blog series](https://blog.timescale.com/blog/how-to-create-lots-of-sample-time-series-data-with-postgresql-generate_series/).
```

### Procedure: Inserting time-series data into TimescaleDB

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Add the following new method to the bottom of the `TimescaleHelper` class. This code will execute a SQL statement that uses `generate_series()` to insert 1 day of sample data into the `sensor_data` hypertable.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add this new method to the bottom of the `TimescaleHelper` class. This code executes a SQL statement that uses `generate_series()` to insert 1 day of sample data into the `sensor_data` hypertable:
```

                               SELECT generate_series(now() - interval '24 hour',
                                                      now(),
                                                      interval '1 minute') AS time,
                               @sid as sensor_id,
                               random()*100 AS temperature,
                               random() AS cpu";

                // We created four sensors in Step 2 and so we iterate over their
                // auto generated IDs to insert data. This could be modified
                // using a larger list or updating the SQL to JOIN on the 'sensors'
                // table to get the IDs for data creation.
                for(int i=1; i<=4; i++)
                {
                    using (var command = new NpgsqlCommand(sql, conn))
                        {
                            command.Parameters.AddWithValue("sid", i);

                            int nRows = command.ExecuteNonQuery();
                            Console.Out.WriteLine(String.Format("Number of rows inserted={0}", nRows));
                        }
                }
            }
        }
```

> 2. Call this method from the `Main` program **after** the `ts.CreateHypertable();` reference.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Call this method from the `Main` program **after** the `ts.CreateHypertable();` reference:
```

```csharp
            // Procedure - Insert time-series data
            // Insert time-series data using the built-in 
            // PostgreSQL function generate_series()
            ts.InsertData();
```

> 3. Save and run the program. If you have not commented out any method calls in the `Main` program, the application will again drop all tables, recreate them, and insert the new sample time-series data. Your output should look similar to this.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Save and run the program. If you have not commented out any method calls in the `Main` program, the application drops all tables, recreates them, and inserts the new sample time-series data. Your output should look similar to this:
```

```bash
$ dotnet run

TimescaleDB Default Version: 2.3.0
Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
Finished dropping table (if existed)
Finished creating the sensors table
Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
Dropped sensor_data table if it existed
Created sensor_data table to store time-series data
Converted the sensor_data table into a TimescaleDB hypertable!
Number of rows inserted=1441
Number of rows inserted=1441
Number of rows inserted=1441
Number of rows inserted=1441
```

Congratulations! You have successfully created and inserted time-series data into your hypertable. The last step to is to execute your first `time_bucket()` query against the hypertable data.

## Query TimescaleDB [](query-timescaledb)

> As a final step of this Quick Start, use the time_bucket function to analyze the average CPU reading in 5 minute buckets of time. This query returns all data for all sensors as currently written. However, this method could be refactored to receive inputs that further filter data using a WHERE clause.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final step of this Quick Start is to use the `time_bucket` function to analyze the average CPU reading in five minute buckets. As written, this query returns all data for all sensors. However, you could adjust the query to receive inputs that further filter data using a WHERE clause.
```

### Procedure: Querying TimescaleDB

1. Create the final method at the bottom of the `TimescaleHelper` class for querying time-series data using the `time_bucket()` function provided by TimescaleDB.

```csharp
        //
        // Procedure - Query TimescaleDB
        // With time-series data inserted, run a 'time_bucket()' query
        // on the data in order to aggregate our 1-minute cpu data into buckets
        // of 5-minute averages.
        public void RunQueryExample(){
            string sql = @"
                SELECT sensor_id, time_bucket('5 minutes', time) AS five_min, avg(cpu)
                FROM sensor_data
                    INNER JOIN sensors ON sensors.id = sensor_data.sensor_id
                GROUP BY sensor_id, five_min
                ORDER BY sensor_id, five_min DESC;";

            var conn = getConnection();
            using(var cmd = new NpgsqlCommand(sql, conn))
            {
                using(NpgsqlDataReader rdr = cmd.ExecuteReader()) {
                    while (rdr.Read()) Console.WriteLine($"{rdr.GetDouble(0)} - {rdr.GetTimeStamp(1)} - {rdr.GetDouble(2)}");
                }
            }

            conn.Close();
        }
```

> 2. Call this method in the `Main` program directly after the `ts.InsertData();` reference.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Call this method in the `Main` program directly after the `ts.InsertData();` reference:
```

```csharp
            // Procedure - Query TimescaleDB
            // Query the data using the Timescale time_bucket() function
            ts.RunQueryExample();
```

> 3. Save and run the application again. As before, if you execute all of the methods in the `Main` program, your output should look similar to this. **Note**, the values of the output will be different than what is shown because we used the `random()` function to generate the values.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Save and run the application again. As before, if you execute all of the methods in the `Main` program, your output should look similar to this. The values of the output will be different because we used the `random()` function to generate them:
```

Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
Number of rows inserted=1
Dropped sensor_data table if it existed
Created sensor_data table to store time-series data
Converted the sensor_data table into a TimescaleDB hypertable!
Number of rows inserted=1441
Number of rows inserted=1441
Number of rows inserted=1441
Number of rows inserted=1441
1 - 2021-09-16 02:40:00 - 0.4404128644957318
1 - 2021-09-16 02:35:00 - 0.4102604181563983
1 - 2021-09-16 02:30:00 - 0.6163615623169129
1 - 2021-09-16 02:25:00 - 0.6738216869256242
1 - 2021-09-16 02:20:00 - 0.5920387434668661
1 - 2021-09-16 02:15:00 - 0.3357799954217377
1 - 2021-09-16 02:10:00 - 0.523394970335945
…
4 - 2021-09-15 14:40:00 - 0.43986085123294955
4 - 2021-09-15 14:35:00 - 0.4829260601553081
4 - 2021-09-15 14:30:00 - 0.257577961505887
4 - 2021-09-15 14:25:00 - 0.3431355979977731
4 - 2021-09-15 14:20:00 - 0.2339278514661025
```
Congratulations! You have successfully queried data from TimescaleDB usig the `Npgsql` SDK. For information on how to execute more complex queries or utilize advanced query functionality, please see the [Npgsql documentation](https://www.npgsql.org/doc/index.html).

## Next Steps

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
